---
page: therapies
section: content
---
**Shamanic Empowering and Healing** (available online too) 

As the oldest healing tradition in human history, shamanism has provided support and solutions for at least 40,000 years. Traditionally and all over the planet, we can find healers in contact with the invisible world: spirits of nature, deities, power animals, ancestors, etc. Shamans lead healing and empowering rituals, bring information and solutions, and are experts at change and transformation. They have an essential role in their community, especially in cases of disease and challenging situations.

Increasingly many psychotherapists and healing practitioners, who want to take an integrative, holistic and systemic view of their patients, are training in shamanism and implement it as an alternative and complementary healing art. Furthermore, acknowledged methods as hypnosis, systemic family constellation, art therapy, dance therapy, whose epistemological roots are closed to shamanic healing show their efficiency. During the shamanic session, as I keep a conscious and ongoing connection to the Spirits my approach is shamanic per se.

Shamanism provides an effective, gentle and natural method of knowledge, healing, empowerment and transformation. Its effects are somatic, psychological, psychosocial and energetic. Shamanic healing can awaken and strengthen resistance, self-healing power, vitality and resiliency. Empowered clients naturally feel healthy and immune, energized with self-love, inner joy and optimism; they can freely develop their personality and projects, and actively participate in the community.

My methods of shamanic healing, empowerment and divination includes dances, songs, mantras, musical instruments (shamanic drums, bells, lyre) and tarot of Marseille. The client usually lies down with their eyes closed. I invite the client to open themselves to the healing process, be prepared for change and transformation, and stay focused on their question or issue.

**Psychotherapy** (available online only in specifics conditions) 

As a trained and certified healing practitioner for psychotherapy, the scope of my therapeutic spectrum allows me to diagnose and treat mental and psychiatric disorders, and to offer support, hope and perspective in cases of organic illness. My approach to mental health is free from rigid psychiatric categorisation. The psychotherapeutic bond is based on authenticity and unconditional positive appreciation. I treat clients with short-term, client-centred and goal-oriented psychotherapy that can be repeated. Concretely, after having set a goal for the psychotherapy, the time of the therapy can be freely divided between two approaches: psychotherapy and shamanic methods. The integration of ancestral shamanic medicine into person-centred humanistic interviews and exchanges leads to results that are faster, deeper, holistic, sustainable and in harmony with each client’s personal resources and own power. Together we search for empowerment and transformation of the self, which makes unhealthy and painful symptoms vanish. In addition, clients learn through the therapy to recognise, embrace and implement newly gained psychological powers in their daily life and to engage in actions and play roles in their community. My ongoing purpose is to help my clients lead autonomous and joyful lives without psychotherapy or dependencies.